Is there like a certain
amount of times like for
this example we only had it in two
places but in a bigger applications,
they're like actually two,
doesn't warrant an observer but like five.
>> For sure I mean yeah, in this
example there is no reason to use it.
As an observer I think it's totally fine
to just use those methods but normally
especially with maybe user tracking, user
analytics or if there's ever an error.
And you just wanna send it to an external
service like a logging service,
I don't know any analytics service.
Which is very common to do that throughout
the application like especially
when you're working with React or
anything else.
You have so
many different components that,
they're not always structured in
a very performance way where you can
just like import all these
analytics functions every time.
So, yeah.
I mean, of course you can use it at any
scale, you can still use it also for
just these two functions.
But obviously it's way more
you get more benefits out
of it when it's actually
like a larger application.
Yeah, so you don't have to worry about it.
>> Could you quickly touch
upon the real use case for
unsubscribe
>> For unsubscribe,
there are many use cases.
I mean, maybe you just want to use
it one time if something happens or
if If it doesn't happen,
then you wanna make sure that this
subscriber doesn't get invoked more often.
Maybe based on external events or if
certain time has passed, there's certain
timeout or if an error occurred,
you want to make sure to unsubscribe it.
So like while the program is running,
it will never try to
call that observer again.
Honestly, yeah.
I feel like there's not really a specific
use case I can think of now because there
are so many different types of use cases.
Normally I do it like I said based on
an error handling if an error gets thrown
somewhere else and that is somehow
connected to that observer.
I want to make sure to unsubscribe it,
so I'm not calling it more often.
This error can maybe come from
like an external API if I've
already reached my request limit or
if your request limit just
to make sure that I'm not getting
a huge bill at the end of the month.
Because I kept on or
at invoking that subscriber, yeah.
It's nice that once
an observer is subscribed,
that you can also
unsubscribe it if need be.
Yeah, but there are many of these cases.
[LAUGH]
>> I got a question too.
>> Yeah.
>> We're, in this case, we're just
sending things to analytics, and so
maybe we don't care if it fails I'm
imagining a situation where I go overboard
with observables I think
they're really cool.
And now I've got my observers crashing,
creating problems or I want one
to happen and then but if that one
happens, I want the second one to happen.
For sure is there like a juggling problem
you can encounter with observables where
it's maybe not a good
case to use observables
>> Yeah I mean and
this is kind of this almost goes back
to the decreased performance here.
It is good for, if you have many function
that you wanna invoke but then there's yet
a certain pressure.
If it's too many or
if they relate to each other,
if one has to go first then
definitely do not use an observable.
Do not subscribe them to the same
observable because the observer doesn't
care about how it's run.
All he cares about is notifying that
function, doesn't care how it's done and
in what order and of course if you have
some for like millions of subscribers.
It can take a long time to notify all of
them maybe even like results in the server
timeout.
So you wanna ensure that the observers
themselves are not related to each other
like the result of one should not are not
dependent on each other I should say.
The result of one should
not affect the other one.
Maybe you can lose multiple
observables for that but
you can definitely go overboard with
like having observables everywhere.
And then ending up in this weird problem,
where does certain data come from,
why does it get invoked all that stuff?
It can definitely be pretty tricky to
understand where stuff happens with
observables I find.
>> I think that's why RX JS has lots and
lots of operators.
>> Yeah, exactly, yeah.
If you use RX JS yeah, exactly that
they're trying to solve that problem.
Personally I don't use RX JS or
I haven't used RXJS and
react applications but when you go
to their, I don't know if RXJS.
Just to show you real quick,
so they have an overview,
so they're all using observables as well.
So you have like observers and in here you
can actually see they give you a lot more
to work with, that you can invoke like
the next event you can like middleware.
Yeah, so what I showed before it's kind
of more like the the pattern behind
observables, like this is what you can do.
And then luckily, there are many
developers that tell you that pattern and
simplify it for those exact reasons
that you say like okay, this is perfect.
But there are so
many things that might go wrong, so
if you wanna use observables,
I would definitely check out RCS or
any similar library that may
>> We do have multiple courses on arcs
>> Yeah, yeah perfect.
Check out their courses
on RXJS net in that case.
>> One quick question.
So are the subscribers
notified in random order or
according to on subscribed first?
>> No, so that just depends on
how you implement the Notify.
So in here, I do the for each,
so that does it sequentially.
Maybe if I knew that they were Promises,
I could do promise.all or
something which returns a promise and
then runs all those functions in parallel.
So that all depends on
your own implementation.
It depends on the data you expect but,
yeah, that doesn't really,
yeah like I said it just depends
on your own implementation.
In this case, it's all in sequence.
>> For this example, so we could
have created a wrapper function that
call all those functions, like the three
though does it the Google, and the custom.
>> Yeah
>> Why would you reach for
a wrapper function versus an observable?
>> I feel like they have different
use cases with an observable,
you can handle a lot of
different subscribers,
maybe a wrapper function in this case,
could have looked something like function.
I don't know if this is kind
of what you were thinking of,
which in turn ,well actually no,
I will not live code that's because
that would just go wrong anyways, yeah.
>> Like call all three of those functions.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Function and call all that function.
>> Exactly
>> Instead of the observer
>> Yeah, no of course.
Like in this case,
that's totally an option.
I feel like observers in general,
it makes it so
much easier like in this case,
I could just import the server here.
And just notify it and
this name isn't super descriptive,
maybe I can say analytics observer or
something observable,
I should say servable, Notify.
If we'd had to import
that wrapper function,
maybe if we need to have way more
functions in that wrapper function.
We'd like have to update that every time
whereas here, we can easily change it.
We can unsubscribe subscribers,
we can subscribe subscribers at runtime,
we cannot easily update
a wrapper function at runtime.
So that's what I mean,
they have different use cases.
If you know that a couple of functions
will always run the same ones,
a wrapper function might be better.
An observable is more for like, okay,
we don't know who's gonna subscribe to it,
we don't know if they might unsubscribe.
The observable doesn't care.
There's just a nice way to pass data
to potential subscribers if they
are subscribed, if that clears things up,
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Cool, yeah.
>> I'm curious in apps.
And it might be hard to speak to this but
would it be common to have
a number of different observables?
And how might you delineate
between observables?
Would it I guess depend on which
subscribers you wanted to be attached?
>> Exactly, so of course,
kinda like I did here,
maybe this is like our
analytics observable.
So, we know that all the functions that
are subscribed here are all dedicated to
sending analytics.
So, maybe even in the Notify or in the
subscribe, maybe we wanna do some extra
validation, okay, is this the function
that we'd expect, is a type we expect.
In the Notify we might also, I don't know,
add different at any different logic,
I don't know.
And then normally,
if we maybe wanna have another observable
like click observable or something.
Like we wanna track a user click events,
that'll be another observable just to make
sure that we don't have one giant
observable that sends events to all the-.
If we had a click observable, we don't
want them to send events to analytics or
if that's not what we expect.
Although I guess click is the wrong thing
here cuz I'm literally using click, so
I guess maybe a scrolling observable.
Yeah, so it's just having multiple
observables in that case,
if you need to use observables for
that specific use case.
It's definitely the better way to go, just
to make sure that you don't unnecessarily
invoke your observers,
send analytics all that stuff.
Cool.
>> A place I use it, is if I have like
model like anytime that model updates,
it just trigger an event and then-
>> Yeah.
>> Anything my code can listen and
subscribe many different places.
And that seems to work really well.
>> Yeah, yeah,
it's a very powerful pattern.
It's very nice, very nice to use.